I'm going to now continue with some very
brief introduction to
that I used in statistical machine
nation beyond the IBM models just very
briefly so doing two things like Chitra
tree translation that's for example work
by your mother and night so the idea is
that you parse the sentences in one of
the languages then you do some
transformations to the syntactic trees
and then you generate from that those
trees to the other language another
technique was introduced by oh and I
this is a so-called phrase base machine
translation so the idea is to recognize
contiguous chunks of text that form
phrases and translate them as units
instead of more than one word at a time
and the third method is syntax based
this is introduced by orchid Oh and the
idea here is to use the usual IBM models
but then once you produce the top
candidate translations to perform a
technique called discriminative we
ranking where you compute the set of
features on each of the translations and
then you combine them using a log linear
model and pick the translation that is
the best and as part of this long linear
model we can include other features for
example whether the sentence is
syntactically reasonable whether it's
the right length and so on and one more
technique that I want to mention very
briefly is closing structuring by cons
at all so the idea here is that you take
some document in a language for which
you have some general idea about its
syntactic structures in this case in
German and then you're going to perform
a sequence of steps that make the text
more and more similar to English by
following the syntactic patterns of the
target language so instead of saying
that perhaps adopt can you change it to
adopt that perhaps can which matches
German better then so that you adopt can
become so that you can adopt so this is
again a peculiar idea of German syntax
so that can you adopt becomes so that
you can adopt this is moving the subject
to the right location in the embedded
clause and then looking at the exact
particle so in German there are common
phrasal verbs where one of the parts of
the Opposition like
in an goofin moves back after their main
verb
so for exactly say who fancy beaten or
hind Milan means Co right back please in
this case the verb and often gets split
into goofin and on and as you can see
the preposition or the prefix an can be
moved arbitrarily later in the sentence
so by preferring those set of
transformations in one of the languages
you can render that language much more
similar to the target language and then
you're going to avoid some of the common
problems with IBM models of statistical
machine translation and be able to get a
much better syntactic structure of the
output and one more thing to mention in
statistical machine translation is the
idea of synchronous grammar so
synchronous grammars were introduced in
machine translation by the Caillou in
the 90s so the idea is to generate parse
trees in parallel in two languages using
different rules so you can start for
example from an S in both languages and
then you're going to apply different
rules that take into account for example
whether the language is a subject verb
object or subject object verb whether
adjectives follow nouns and so on so you
can have a rule in English that says NP
goes to adjective noun in ignition at
the same time have a parallel ho and P
ghost an adjective in Spanish so now
we're going to move on to evaluation of
machine translation I'm going to
introduce the most basic techniques that
I used that are appear in research
papers published on machine translation
so machine translation is particularly
difficult to evaluate because there's
not one single answer if you ask
different human translators to come up
with translations of the same sentence
they're likely to come up with similar
yet widely divergent translations so
human judgments are not unique and even
if you judge one human against another
human you're not going to get perfect
agreement so some of the metrics that
have been used in the past for
evaluating translation involve asking
humans to judge the translations
manually for things like adequacy is
that an adequate translation of the
original document
grammaticality is it a grammatical
output this kind of technique for
evaluation is very expensive because if
you have to compare many different
systems many different runs on many
different sentences you would need to
have thousands of humans and the humans
can be actually fairly unreliable and
expansive so the focus in recent years
has been on automatic methods and
specifically the most common technique
these days is technique called blue
which was introduced by Kishore Pepe
Nene at all from IBM in 2002 it's a very
simple technique it is based on multiple
human references and a unigram diagram
and so on overlap between them and then
when the system produces its output you
compare that output against all of the
human judgments again at the Union
Graham Biograph track gram and for
Graham levels there's not a technique
that is also relatively often use it's
called edit cost and this is for example
the number of edits that the human would
need to perform on the translation for
example by moving words around or
characters around over by counting the
number of minutes that it takes to
revise the translation to the correct
translation but I will focus most on
blue so here's how it works
so again it's simple and Graham
precision with multiple human references
and very important it includes the
brevity penalty because otherwise you
can come up with a translation that is
very short that will just focus on two
or three of the most obvious words in
the translation and get very high
precision so that's why bluing too
includes a addition and additional
parameter that makes it impossible to
cheat that way so blue is not an ideal
metric however it has been shown to
correlate relatively well with human
assessments of automatic systems it's
not as good however when it's used to
compare humans and gas automatic
translations so the bottom line about
blue is that most people don't like it
but they use it anyway and this is
pretty much the acceptable accepted
standard in the evaluation of machine
translation systems is they
so many data sets are available for
example from LDC the multiple
translation Chinese and multiple
translation Arabic corpora each of which
comes with a large number of
translations by humans and also by
automatic systems that can be used for
training and for evaluation of
translation systems so here's an example
we can look at it on the web in more
detail but I'm going to show in the
first sentence of it only this is a
Chinese sentence as your headline and
then all the human references that you
can get from this corpus as you can see
they're not exactly the same and even
though it's a headline they can have a
relatively large diversity so now let's
move on to the last topic in machine
translation very briefly and this is the
idea of decoding so once you have built
the IBM models including possibly phrase
models you have to now figure out which
of the translations is most likely so
the decoding process essentially is to
find of all the candidate translations
the one that maximizes the probability
of F given e times P of e so we have the
values of those probabilities but now we
need to find a translation that
maximizes its expression so
unfortunately even for a simple model
like IBM more than 1 this is an
np-complete problem so the longer the
sentence the more difficult it is to get
the best translation so what people do
is that for efficiency reasons is to use
a phase transition table specifically
the famous Farrow system by Phillip Khan
and then use heuristic search a star
like combining the cost of the
translation up to a certain point with
the estimate of the translation for the
rest of the sentence and this is done at
the level of phrases to make things more
efficient and this is combined with beam
search so that only a small set of the
candidates are evaluated at each step so
I'm going to conclude the section on
machine translation by giving us some
pointers for tools for projects and for
assignments the first one is language
modeling toolkits there are many
available I would recommend the SR I and
the CMU Cambridge language modeling
to kids which are both available for
research purposes on the Internet
there are some research translation
systems for example Giza pass pass by
France or and Moses which is available
on stat MT org and for decoders you can
download Pharaoh also from Stanton org
and from some other websites so this
concludes the section on machine
translation we'll see you in the next
segment